what is meaning of schema in NOSQL databases?
ChatGPT
In traditional SQL databases, the term "schema" refers to the structure that defines the organization of data, which can include tables, fields, as well as the relationships between them. In these SQL databases, the schema is fixed in advance: before you can add data, you have to define what "shape" that data will have. For example, you need to define tables and the types of data that each column in a table will hold.

However, NoSQL databases, being "not only SQL," have a more flexible or dynamic schema for unstructured data. Here's what that means in different types of NoSQL databases:

Document-Based NoSQL Databases (e.g., MongoDB, Couchbase): 
In these databases, a "schema" is often a loose definition of what keys 
might be present in a JSON or BSON document.
You can usually add fields on the fly, 
and each "document" can have its own unique structure.

//important 
The schema is generally application-enforced rather than database-enforced.

Key-Value Stores (e.g., Redis, DynamoDB): The concept of a schema is mostly irrelevant in these databases, as they only store opaque values against a key.

Column-Family Stores (e.g., Cassandra, HBase): A schema exists but is very different from traditional SQL databases. These databases have column families, which you can think of as tables. Each column family will contain rows keyed by a unique identifier, and the columns can differ from one row to the next.

Graph Databases (e.g., Neo4j, ArangoDB): These databases will usually have a loose schema that defines types of nodes and relationships but not a fixed structure that every node or relationship must adhere to.

So when we talk about "schema" in the context of NoSQL, we are generally talking about a much more flexible and dynamic system for organizing data. Depending on your specific needs and the NoSQL database you're using, you might have to think about schema quite differently than you would when using a SQL database.

//Email
Dear Dr Fahed;
I hope this email finds you well;
I hava a questions about schema in the final project;
according to my knowledge, NoSql databases are schema less,
where documents are not restricted by a fixed structure,
so can I consider that schema is application enforced not database enforced, more formally,can I avoid enforce stroing documents under specific structure and only applications that use the database is must to follow the schema?

another question about collection, 
Collections are not mentioned in the project requirement, are we required to implement them? 
Thank you

Basheer Jarrah - Java and DevOps trainee at Atypon